(docs) Add release notes for 6.10.0 (#3242)
puppetlabs/puppetdb: documentation/release_notes/release_notes_latest.markdown

[puppet_apply]: ./connect_puppet_apply.html

---

## PuppetDB 6.10.0

### Upgrading

> This upgrade contains a very long running migration to the reports table,
> which is typically the largest table in PuppetDB by far. Before upgrading to,
> or past, this version of PuppetDB, you are strongly encouraged to consider
> deleting your reports table. This will drastically shorten your upgrade time
> and get you back online much faster. If you are on a version `5.2.z`, please
> upgrade to `5.2.14` or later and then take advantage of the `delete-reports`
> subcommand. Otherwise, consult the documentation on how to [truncate the
> reports table manually](https://puppet.com/docs/puppetdb/latest/upgrade.html#truncate-your-reports-table).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This upgrade contains a long running migration to the reports table,
which is typically the largest table in PuppetDB. Before upgrading to,
or past, this version of PuppetDB, you are strongly encouraged to consider
deleting your reports table. This will drastically shorten your upgrade time
and get you back online much faster. If you are on a `5.2.z` version, please
upgrade to `5.2.14` or later and then take advantage of the `delete-reports`
subcommand. Otherwise, consult the documentation on how to [truncate the
reports table manually](https://puppet.com/docs/puppetdb/latest/upgrade.html#truncate-your-reports-table).
```

Reviewer: I'm assuming the "truncate instructions" in the docs haven't hit master yet?

Author: Correct, they are in a PR,  puppetlabs/puppetdb#3239

### New features

>  - **New `delete-reports` subcommand of the `puppetdb` command.** It will stop the PuppetDB service and delete all reports from the database. [PDB-2398](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-2398)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **New `delete-reports` subcommand of the `puppetdb` command.** The command stops the PuppetDB service and deletes all reports from the database. [PDB-2398](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-2398)
```

>  - **New `migrate` configuration option in database settings.** On startup, PuppetDB will only perform migrations if the value is true. When the value is `false` and a migration is necessary, PuppetDB will exit with an error. [PDB-3751](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-3751)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **New `migrate` configuration option in database settings.** On startup, PuppetDB will only perform migrations if the value is `true`. If the value is `false` and a migration is necessary, PuppetDB will exit with an error. [PDB-3751](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-3751)
```

>  - PuppetDB can now be configured to attempt to prevent concurrent migrations or any access to a database that's in an unexpected format, either too new or too old. See the [documentation](https://puppet.com/docs/puppetdb/latest/configure.html#coordinating-database-migrations) for further information. [PDB-4636](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-4636) [PDB-4637](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-4637) [PDB-4639](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-4639)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **New `migrate?`option.** You can now configure PuppetDB to attempt to prevent concurrent migrations or any access to a database that's in an unexpected format, either too new or too old. See [Configuring PuppetDB](https://puppet.com/docs/puppetdb/latest/configure.html#coordinating-database-migrations) for further information. [PDB-4636](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-4636) [PDB-4637](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-4637) [PDB-4639](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-4639)

```

### Bug fixes

>   - Fixed an issue that would cause PE's sync to fail and never retry when one PuppetDB had been upgraded and the other had not. Now it will fail and retry. [PDB-4682](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-4682)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed an issue that would cause PE's sync to fail and never retry when one PuppetDB had been upgraded and the other had not. PE's sync will now fail and retry. [PDB-4682](https://tickets.puppetlabs.com/browse/PDB-4682)
```
